So, artificial intelligence updates
every Friday at 2 pm Eastern. Today,
Friday, March 6. And as you can see, a
lot of updates. And I will start with
some phrases which I picked up from
different uh sources. AI isn't a bubble,
but a wrecking ball destroying
traditional software as a service
business model. This is coming from Wes
Roth. Has a great channel on YouTube. I
recommend to subscribe skills instead of
uh SAS. So yes, we're writing skills
now. In future, users will interact with
one central agent to automate their
lives making traditional apps and SAS
obsolete. We'll discuss this from
question answer chat to autonomous
operator or digital employee. And your
job is to on board AI agents. This is
from Peter Young.
Well, it's not exactly that. Your job
becoming to onboard one agent and then
uh create skills for this agent. Anyway,
so this is the latest uh leaderboard
data as of yesterday, March 5th. So,
what's interesting here, we have the
latest uh GPT 5.4.
So, we have a standard model and we have
the high model. And you see um it's high
not as high as Claude and Gemini
or even Grock but it's uh quite
respectable. Uh it's also very
expensive. Um so this is uh to remind on
the right we have results for coding and
on the left we have just regular text
chat. Uh okay. And the colors are uh
blue is claude, red is gemini, Google
gemini, yellow is open AI and green is
open source which means China like uh
Kim K 2.5, Quen 3.5
and so on. Okay. Next, uh this is a very
interesting graph uh from Reddit from
Apoch AI. So they analyzed uh how
entropic and open AI uh compare. If you
look at AR analyzed revenue and it looks
like that by uh middle of this year
Antropic should overtake open AI. It's
really really interesting because
Antropics started recently and it was
like was it 2024 I I don't remember but
it it was recently and they are growing
very very fast mostly because of their
focus on uh coding.
Um next uh Mercury 2 by Inception Labs.
Inception Labs is a American startup and
they promise to provide open-source
models but this one is not open source
but this it is quite amazing. So it is
fast. It's like 1,000 tokens uh per
second. Uh it is cheap. You see uh 0.25
in and 0.75 out. This is cheap per
million tokens. a reasonable context
window, not million but 128,000
uh tokens. So it's a high uh performance
alternative to regular models and uh
again it's not uh the greatest. It's
comparable with cloth haiku and it's not
open but it's very good and it's very
good for many applications because of
its speed and uh why it is so fast
because uh uh well it is diffusionbased
and diffusion based models are known to
be fast now openai released GPT 5.3
instant and then they released GPT 5.4
which comes as a standard and pro and
the prices are quite high. So look at
pro for deep reasoning $30 per million
tokens in and $180 per million tokens
out which is very very expensive. Right?
So these are standard uh pricing at $250
$15 for regular context and for long
context it's higher. They have caching
and caching reduces uh the cost of input
tokens but uh doesn't influence the
output tokens of course and the instant
is uh $1.75 in and 14 out. So again it's
not cheap and definitely if you compare
it for example with Mercury 2 you can
see the difference right. Uh next
Google released Gemini 3.1 and they have
also they have a flashlight and they
have uh 3.1 Pro and they perform very
very well and they already available. So
you see Gemini 3 and it's my screen and
you see 3.1 Pro. So you you you can use
it um highly efficient uh you can
regulate the thinking levels. So yeah,
it's a good uh very very good model. Uh
Gemini Nana Banana 2. This is a huge
thing because it's better, it's faster,
it's cheaper, it's like uh 4.5 cents per
image. So it's really really cheap. Um
you know how large language models uh
basically removed uh the job for human
translators?
Now this model will remove will make
obsolete many human professions. Uh this
this is amazing model. Quen 3 coder.
Next uh
uh 80 billion parameter model. Uh very
good quality a lot of downloads very
popular.
uh and you can use it via cloud code or
open AI codeex or some other cloud
co-work can schedule tasks
uh so you know cloud co-work there is a
cloud application you can install it on
your let's say Mac laptop and uh it have
chat it has coding and it has co-work uh
which can work with your files and where
you can um you can actually control it
remotely and you can schedule tasks
uh Antropic skill creator tool. They
also call it uh skill 2.0. Oh, here
skills 2.0. Um so this is the
repository. So what they did they
created skill to create skills and uh
there are all all the necessary tooling
and uh workflows and how you do it. So
uh you create uh two types of skills.
Capability uplift skills uh like for
example how to handle PDF files or
workflow preference skills that encode
your specific processes and they include
AB split testing to tune skills uh to
tune the name of the skill the
description of the skills to make sure
that the model select the right skill
for the job and so on. Uh optimizing
triggers. So th this is u a big event
you see skills become very very central
going forward. Uh clot code memory.mmd
uh you've heard about uh uh cloud.md.
Now memory md
uh so it is automemory by default. to
toggle it uh you can uh open uh
slashmemory in a session and use
automemory toggle and uh it it will
memorize your work. So this is a big
thing because you were working and then
next day you came and how to make sure
that uh clot code remembers what you
were doing yesterday. So this is the way
how how it works. cloth code voice mode
feature. Now you have command /voice.
It's in beta. Only few people can
currently use it. But what it means that
you will be able to talk to your clot
code uh uh coding agent. So you have
clot code memory and you have clot code
voice.
Uh okay. This is uh shameless plugin to
my channel. Name of the channel is my
name. Left selector. I always provide uh
slides uh on GitHub uh and also via
Google Drive and I also ask a question
under the video. So please stop the
video, look at the question and answer
it in the comments. Uh Alibaba uh copo
uh so it's a open- source personal
agent. uh it's kind of uh like uh open
claw but coming from Alibaba or or kind
of like clawed desktop application. So
it's a but it's open source and uh agent
scope uh as an opensource multi- aent
framework. So there is agent scope and
Alibaba copore is like built on top of
agent scope coming from Alibaba
and uh model scope model scope is a
website so here model scope.cn CN if you
go there it's kind of like a hugging
face but hugging face we have in America
and model scope we have in China and it
has a lot of models which you can
download and well it's a big big uh
website so we have Alibaba cloud we have
model scope oh it says yeah in China
plays a role very similar to hugging
face in US we have copore and we have uh
is and S stands for I forgot what it
stands for.
Where where is it?
Any anyway uh next uh clo code versus
open claw. Uh open claw became very very
popular but many people prefer to use uh
clo code uh uh directly. It is safer. It
is ready for production. Uh it's not
brittle like open claw has a lot of
issues especially around security and
setup. Uh now cloud code now supports
remote control and the way it works and
this is by the way documentation where
it shows how you can do it. Uh you can
use share or remote control option and
it will give you a URL. So then when you
on another device go to this URL, you
basically can join the session and you
can control uh clot uh code uh from this
other device. Uh claude now remembers
your work habits. So now we're talking
about regular code in the browser
and uh like I really enjoyed this
functionality in perplexity because I
ask all kind of questions um about car
about tractor about different things and
it remembers it knows where I live it
remembers what I do. So now claude has a
similar uh option uh cla work allows
scheduling recurring daily weekly
monthly tasks. You can import memory
into cloud from other systems. This is
huge. They provide instructions how you
can go to some other chat uh let's say
open AI or whatever give it a prompt so
it will compose a text which represents
the memory of your interaction with this
other chat and then you take this text
and you import it into claude from
another system.
Uh next this is very very important
diagram. This is a huge transition which
is happening right now. So uh we before
we had specialized applications
whether they are local or uh on the
cloud like software as a service
applications and services
and we went through a lot of uh
development uh models training and
tuning. Well nowadays uh for business
nobody even thinking about training the
models. You just grab the model like
grab the best model like claude or
whatever. Um chat for simple Q&A prompt
engineering then add using data model
context protocol which was released
about a year and a half ago. Now it's
very common to get the data. Um agent
creates a plan and then executes it.
Then we add using skills add memory and
you basically get generic desktop
application with skills. So this is uh
an example. It's like digital employee.
You have a generic agent application in
the middle and it uses skills. So you
really don't want to write this agent by
yourself because they are quite
sophisticated. They're written by big u
teams like for for example clo desktop
right and there are multiple to choose
from. So you you don't need to write it.
Uh but what you need for your specific
case is different skills or plugins. And
that's what people will be doing for
particular business or for yourself like
personally. Uh you can create a
directory for skills and uh create
skills and tune skills. Oh, this by the
way is very interesting. This is a
GitHub uh repository
uh and uh the project is awesome claws.
So there is more than 20 uh different
claws
of course starting with open claw and
many others like pa claw, nana claw,
iron claw and and and so on and uh with
all the links and the list is growing.
So these are multiple open-source
variations for this uh generic agent app
and of course uh all major provide pro
providers whether it's American,
European or Chinese provide those things
and make them better and better. Okay.
Claw X a free desktop app for open claw
AI agents. Uh so offers a clean
intuitive guey that eliminates the need
of technical setup a terminal commands
easy installation through setup wizard
um again so how to use uh open claw and
make it easier for nontechnical people
uh significantly simplifies the user
experience and makes AI automation more
accessible for nontechnical users. Okay.
Open claw plus simflow AI phone voice
agent can make and receive phone calls.
Okay. Uh next accomplish uh uh this is
formally open work and they have yet
another AI desktop agent. So you see the
accomplish uh offers a simpler
alternative to open claw clean UI can
run locally for free using alama and
provides step-by-step breakdown of
tasks. So these are github and other
links null claw against opal. So, one of
the claws, no claw, very very small,
very very fast, runs on cheaper
hardware, 1 megabyte versus 1 GB of
memory, very fast start up and so on.
This is just an example of um okay uh
harness engineering a very important
idea. So uh this dragon is uh kind of uh
a model and then you put harness to use
this model, right? So AI model doesn't
matter anymore. You can use different
models. What's important is uh how you
use it um like the hardness around it.
So top frontier models only complete 24%
of real world professional tasks despite
scoring over 90% on benchmarks. So the
key insight is that the harness the
infrastructure wrapped around the models
matter more than the model itself. A
harness manages what AI can see what
tools it uses error recovery long-term
tracking. Major companies like OpenAI
Antropica are emphasizing hardness
engineering. So this term hardness
engineering uh surprisingly simpler
harnesses often work better uh than
complex one. One company improved
accuracy from 80% to 100% by removing
80% of specialized tools and using basic
command line tools instead. So simplify
simplify as models get smarter harness
should become simpler not more complex.
So the video and this is the link for
YouTube video says that this year will
be the year of harnesses following
previous year of agent
from trying to choose the best model to
orchestration of multiple models and
doing self-planning and splitting
responsibilities between models. So
harnessing
uh next
claw yet another claw but using minax.
Minimax is a Chinese company and they
have very good models and they now
created this min maxclaw uh agent. It's
minimax should be uh so sim similar to
open claw easy to deploy in 10 seconds
through web interface uh about $90 a
month well cheaper than manus which is
$49 a month uh manus is was u bought by
meta just to remind you uh open claw
offers more control for developers max
claw suits beginners who want
functionality without technical
complexity quen 3.5 So, Quen released a
family of new models. Um, the previous
was three, now it's 3.5. They come in
different sizes and they're really,
really good. So much so that for
example, Quen 3.535B
has the same accuracy, the same
performance as Quen 3 uh 235B.
So it is uh much smaller but uh does the
job of a previously much bigger model.
So models become much higher quality.
This this is um a great thing. So you
can run them using
a lama cloud. Uh so it's Apache it's
open source.
Uh yeah so this is great good reasoning
code bench uh practical consumer GPU. Uh
okay so so this is this is good thing uh
tool calling thinking multimodel
everything um there is one unfortunate
fact I don't remember if I cover it this
week but quen uh team it was kind of uh
dissolved because they decided to
separate it in multiple groups and in
the process some of the key people just
left the company. So this may be bad for
Quen models in general because they want
before they were producing a lot of open
source models but now they may may
switch their focus to commercial
open claw tips. So these are some
YouTube videos uh with the tips like how
to reduce token usage uh by 97%.
or secure open claw AI agent setup for
document intelligence or how to make
open claw 10 times better. So the using
something called skill boss which is a
paid uh stuff open claw awesome skills a
catalog of many many build skills and
mission control to managing AI agents
right. Uh open claw memory mistake you
are making right now. Uh so open claw
agent often use a single huge memory
file which confuses the model and wastes
talking better memory strategies for
persistent efficient context structured
markdown folders for goals decisions
preferences enabling open claw bit
built-in memory search uh me zero plugin
and storing dense structured data in
native SQL light database. So you see as
people using open claw they come up with
a lot of uh genius uh tips uh three
layer memory solution for open claw
daily notes cored memory files semantic
search with vector database okay so I
will not go deeper because we have so
much material okay tools that make open
claw actually useful
uh so this is the video agent
[clears throat] mail email service for
AI agent email handling without risk. Uh
QMD replaces open close basic
keyword-based memory system. Yet another
uh memory solution. Agent browser, a
command line web browsing tool that uses
93% fewer tokens than traditional
browser automation tools. Right. Uh next
toggle a browser agent skill for open
claw. Well, it is in beta. It installs
as a Chrome extension, monitors browser
activity across Google Sheets, Gmail,
Slack and notion, feeding a context to
open claw, provides productivity
features and so on. Share plus sidecar.
Uh so share framework presents
catastrophic prevents catastrophic
forgetting by organizing new tasks into
shared mathematical subspaces.
Sidecar acts as an online learning
partner using novelty energy and
emotional
science to decide which real-time
information is important. By merging
these two AI can mimic biological
memory, consolidating short-term
experiences into long-term knowledge.
Very interesting. Uh next, Kain AI
software testing assistant helps QA with
quality assurance and development teams
plan, create, run, and debug tests using
natural language instead of code. Uh
next, uh clo code plus Telegram B. Well,
this video is in Russian, but it's very
good and insightful and explains how to
do it. Uh next uh this week there were
updates from Apple and they introduced a
lot of uh new uh uh hardware. So there
are multiple uh laptops using M5 uh chip
which is about 20 25% faster, better and
so on. Uh they introduced a new phone
and new iPad and display. Um what's
interesting the new cheap laptop which
is called Mac Neo which is only $600 and
uh for students is only $500. New laptop
metal aluminum casing good screen 13 in
the uh chip there is uh uh from the
phone uh but uh well it's it's good
enough. So for a student uh it's it's a
good laptop.
uh they introduced three devices with
entry-level prices of $600 which is
MacBook Neo, iPad uh air and iPhone 17e.
So they're very aggressively going for
the market. Uh next AI agent making
money. So this video where he actually
run a agent uh to trade and shows how
well he didn't uh uh financial agent
managed online store generated 141 in
revenue. Oh okay. So this is not bad.
Open claw marketing team. So in this
example uh he used open claw to to run
marketing
ads analyst head of marketing creative
director performance marketer.
Uh next the 2028 global intelligence
crisis.
Um so their prediction is that maybe in
2028 economy will collapse and many
agree that uh because uh AI digital
employees will substitute humans
uh there will be a turmoil time where
and government isn't is not prepared for
for this. So there will be displace
displacement spiral where white collar
workers are laid off
and uh yeah service now launches AI
workforce
uh AI tools called autonomous work uh
workforce and employee works. AI
specialists can handle entire jobs in IT
and HR.
Uh Perplexity has the industry-leading
search embedding models uh surpassing
Google and Alibaba.
Next uh AT&T cut cost 90% by using
multi- aent in architecture. So this is
important for a big company where you
have many different tasks. uh you can
use different models for different tasks
and for many tasks you can use uh
cheaper models and uh this uh way you
can uh make responses faster and you can
drive costs down and in this case is
just by 90% which is very impressive. So
you don't use just one model, you don't
use the best model, you use uh the whole
spectrum of different models. uh
perplexity computer with max plan $200 a
month uh only in the web UI uh so it's
the same idea you have a central uh like
agent or digital employee which is smart
which is generic and which can do a lot
of stuff [snorts]
uh perplexity integration with Samsung
phones. So they made a big deal with
Samsung and now uh all new Samsung
phones have perplexity and you can say
hey plex and talk to it. Uh this is
important. So, Iliakever
after he left OpenAI and started his
company safe super intelligence it was
very secretive like what they were doing
but uh now some information start to
percolate uh it's not really verified
but still uh very interesting. So
current AI paradigm relies on back
propagation which is biologically
unrealistic and in inefficient because
uh you go forward through the whole
network and then you go backward through
the whole network
uh uh which is very very expensive to
do. So alternative is uh that you try to
predict and you do local predictions and
you do like training only locally not
not globally in in in the whole network.
Uh unlike standard AI that forces
immediate wiring changes, this method
allows a network to first imagine an
ideal state to reconcile predictions
with sensory input. This approach
prevents catastrophic uh inter
interference where uh learning new
information destroys all memories and
mirrors humanlike adaptability and
experiments.
So very interesting ideas. Uh next
LFM224B.
Uh so it's a open model from liquid AI.
It's mixture of experts 24 billion
parameters open weights can run on
regular laptop and hybrid architecture
convolution and attention layers. Uh
yeah, so it's it's a good and uh liquid
AI is in Boston uh Massachusetts.
Codebuff, a new open-source AI coding
agent, a multi- aent software
engineering. So you orchestrating
multiple agents. So this is how you
install it. npm install minus G-code
buff and uh yeah. Oops. Sorry. What what
what happened?
Uh next
humanize text uh and uh remove uh AI
accent. Uh well I'm guilty of doing this
myself. Uh my approach was I just ask uh
AI look at this text and tell me if it
is written by AI and if so like what
needs to be removed, what needs to be
changed. uh but people actually created
a very long Wikipedia
uh page which shows signs of AI writing
and uh on the GitHub there's humanizer
there is a GitHub there's a skill how to
remove this AI accent
and this is the video from M Berman
talking about it
uh Pope Leo 14th told priests to stop
using CH GPT to sermons because AI will
never be able to share faith.
Deep fake tech getting better and
better. People get scammed from millions
of dollars. Very believable. Uh North
Korea's Lazarus group hackers are
deploying Medusa ransom wire against
hospitals and other healthcare
organizations.
Intel replaced human customer support
with AI agents powered by Microsoft
Copilot. AI chip startup Matt X raised
half a billion to build processors 10
times better than Nvidia. Well, maybe
uh Antropic versus US Department of
Defense. So [snorts] this is a big
scandal uh started uh last week and uh
Antropic said that he cannot agree on
mass surveillance of Americans because
it is against the law and also they said
they cannot sign allow fully autonomous
weapons with no human in the loop.
Well reaction of Pentagon was really
strange. uh they said yes mass
surveillance is not legal but they still
want [laughter] like this in the
contract and uh also the fully
autonomous weapons. So they didn't sign
and then uh Donald Trump actually
ordered all federal agencies to stop
using entropic technology
uh labeled them
in a bad way. Uh
now yesterday things have changed.
Antropic is again in negotiations with
department of defense because on one
side they banned Antropic. On the other
side they used Antropic uh during the
war in Iran right now. So they cannot
just uh stop using it. And um uh so
Antropic CEO Dero Amade interview this
is a really really good interview about
half an hour he goes in detail of his
conversations with the US department of
war. Uh so employees at Google and open
AAI have uh published an open letter
supporting Antropic.
uh OpenAI signed uh the contract which
uh uh Antropic refused but then there
was a huge uh backlash like million
people have left OpenAI like a quit GPT
movement and Sam Alman said that OpenAI
is now renegotiating and has already
adjusted the agreement with the Pentagon
adding explicit bans of using AI for
domestic mass surveillance of American
and forbid use of autonomous weapons. So
if this is coming uh around and if uh
government will renegotiate and maybe
sign the same contract with Antropic uh
yes then this will will be closed
hopefully. But another thing happened
this week and this kind of scary this
week Antropic has abandoned its safety
first pledge. So remember several years
ago when entropic was formed. So these
were people from open AI they left open
AAI because they wanted to create models
which are safety first and
principlebased
training and uh but now they said that
safety first pledge
is uh meaningless because it doesn't
work if competitors are racing ahead.
Competitive pressure destroys voluntary
restraint. The company that waits is the
company that loses. Jared Kaplan,
Antropics chief science officer, stated
plainly, "The pledge doesn't work if
competitors are racing ahead." So the
new policy match rivals safety effort
while being transparent. So this is
absolutely fundamental shift from we
won't build it unless it's safe to will
beat it as safely as the competitor
does. Uh yeah. Uh next moonshots. Um
there was several uh I really love th
those videos where they discuss uh
what's happening and you see they cover
a lot uh including economy which I
usually don't cover. Um like there was
also interview with Andrew Ang uh famous
Andrew Ang creator of Corsera
and uh he says that he believes that AGI
we are far from AGI and it will not be
this year or next year. It probably
maybe decades uh away and uh
shift towards synthetic data. Most jobs
will be augmented. Some will be hit hard
like translators or call center workers.
And uh next,
oh yeah, this is very important video.
So this is uh by uh Matthew Berman and
uh he talks about uh um a company called
My Fitness Pal. They have application
for the phone where you can put uh your
exercises like your push-ups, your
squats and uh you can put the your your
food. So it calculates calories and uh
uh well people use it. It's called my
fitness pal right to become more fit. So
this company bought another company
which is called kal AI and this callai
is a application on phone. So you point
it to a let's say burger and it will
tell you it's a burger and it has so
many calories and and so on. And uh Cali
actually has only seven employees and
about 30 million uh uh per year in
subscription fees and uh my fitness pal
bought them and paid a lot of money. I'm
not sure how much but let's say like 50
million or maybe more. And uh Matthew's
point is that uh he actually took a call
eye application and he reproduced it
using vibe coding in about 1 hour and uh
when you can reproduce it that means
that
uh there may be a lot of competition and
and so on. So he says that
the the model of software as a service
and cali is a software as a service it
it completely dies. It collapses because
people will use personal AI agents and
they can uh get uh very cheaply or for
free or create themselves necessary
skills to accomplish whatever functions
they need. Uh so Burman predicts that
the vertical SAS category will
eventually collapse into personalized uh
AI agents. Okay. Uh next, uh yeah, this
is about jobs and layoffs. Uh March just
started. Uh nothing unusual. And this is
me as usual. And thank you